AutoNLP using AutoVIML library for Natural Language Processing (#6118)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/autonlp-using-autoviml-library-for-natural-language-processing/index.md

```python
dataset, info = tfds.load('amazon_us_reviews/Personal_Care_Appliances_v1_00', with_info=True, batch_size=-1)
```
From the code above, the `tfds.load` method will be used to load the dataset from `tensorflow_datasets`. We will save our dataset into a new variable using the following code:

```python
train_dataset = dataset['train']
```
To see the information available in our dataset run this command:

```python
info
```
The output is shown below:

![Dataset information](/engineering-education/autonlp-using-autoviml-library-for-natural-language-processing/dataset-information.jpg)

From the image above, the dataset has over 130 million customer reviews that have been collected by researchers over the years. The dataset has different columns. We are interested in the following important columns: `helpful_votes`, `review_headline`, `review_body` and `star_rating`. 

- `star_rating`
It is the 1-5 star rating of the product purchased.

- `helpful_votes`
It is the number of votes of a purchased product.

- `review_headline`
It is the title product review.

- `review_body`
It is a detailed description of the review.

> After loading the dataset, we need to convert the dataset into an array using NumPy. An array can be easily be used by the model.

Reviewer: Please rewrite the second sentence in this paragraph in active voice.

#### Convert dataset to array
We import the NumPy package using the following code:

```python
import numpy as np
```
To convert the dataset, use this code:

```python
dataset=tfds.as_numpy(train_dataset)
```
To see the structure of the new dataset, use this code:

```python
dataset
```
The output is shown below:

![Dataset array](/engineering-education/autonlp-using-autoviml-library-for-natural-language-processing/dataset-array.jpg)

> From the image above our dataset is in array format. The next step is to extract the four important columns from our dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the image above, our dataset is in array format. The next step is to extract the four important columns from our dataset.
```

### Extracting important columns
To extract the important columns, use this code:

```python
helpful_votes=dataset['data']['helpful_votes']
review_headline=dataset['data']['review_headline']
review_body=dataset['data']['review_body']
rating=dataset['data']['star_rating']
```
This will enable us to use these four columns as inputs for our model during training. Next, we will create a data frame for our dataset. A data frame will neatly organize our dataset into columns and rows.

### Creating a data frame

> To create a data frame we need the Pandas library. Let's import the Pandas library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a data frame, we need the Pandas library. Let's import the Pandas library.
```

```python
import pandas as pd
```
The data frame is then created using the following code:

```python
reviews_df=pd.DataFrame(np.hstack((helpful_votes[:,None],review_headline[:,None],review_body[:,None],rating[:,None])),columns=['votes','headline','reviews','rating'])
```
The code above will create a data frame. It will also assign columns names as `votes`, `headline`, `reviews`, and `rating`. We need to specify the data types of these four columns.

#### Columns datatypes
Our columns will have the following datatypes:

```python
convert_dict = {'votes': int, 
 'headline': str,
 'reviews': str,
 'rating': int
               }
```
We then save the data types into a new variable. 

```python
reviews_df = reviews_df.astype(convert_dict) 
```
To see the structure of our data frame, run this command.

```python
reviews_df
```
The output is shown below:

![Dataframe structure](/engineering-education/autonlp-using-autoviml-library-for-natural-language-processing/dataframe-structure.jpg)

From the image above, our dataset is neatly organized into rows and columns. It has four columns and 85981 rows.

### Adding the target column

> We need to add a target column. The target column represents the model output after making a prediction. The model classifies customers reviews as either positive or negative. Positive reviews are represented by 1 while negative reviews are represented by 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to add a target column. The target column represents the model output after making a prediction. The model classifies customers reviews as either positive or negative. Positive reviews are represented by `1`, while negative reviews are represented by `0`.
```

For a review to be positive the `star_rating` should be greater than 4. If the `star_rating` is less than 4, the review is negative. To add the target column, we will use this logic as follows:

```python
reviews_df["target"] = reviews_df["rating"].apply(lambda x: 1 if x>= 4 else 0) 
```
This code will add the target column. It will ensure that if the `rating` is greater than 4 the review will be labeled `1`. If the `rating` is less than 4, the review is labeled `0`.

To see our newly added target column, use this code:

```python
reviews_df
```
The output is shown below:

![Target column](/engineering-education/autonlp-using-autoviml-library-for-natural-language-processing/target-column.jpg)

The image above shows the dataset with the added target column. The target column is either labeled `1` or `0`.

> Our dataset is now neatly and correctly formatted, we now need to split our dataset into two sets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our dataset is neatly and correctly formatted. We now need to split our dataset into two sets.
```

### Dataset splitting

> We will split our dataset into two sets. One set will be used to train the model, the other set used to test the model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will split our dataset into two sets. We use one set to train the model, while the other set to test the model. 
```

Reviewer: Avoid using passive voices in your sentences

Let's import the package used for dataset splitting.

```python
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
```
To split the dataset, use this code:

```python
train, test = train_test_split(reviews_df, test_size=0.25)
```

> From the code above we have used `test_size=0.25`. This is the ratio used for dataset splitting. 75% of the data is used for training and 25% is used for testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the code above, we have used `test_size=0.25`. It is the ratio used for dataset splitting. We use 75% of the data for training and 25% for testing.
```

After splitting the dataset, let's now use AutoVIML to automate natural language processing.

### Using AutoVIML
AutoVIML has in-built functions that are used to automate natural language processing. We will use the `Auto_NLP` function which is imported from AutoVIML.

> To import `Auto_NLP` use this code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import `Auto_NLP`, use this code:
```

```python
from autoviml.Auto_NLP import Auto_NLP
```
After importing `Auto_NLP`, we will specify the input column and output column.

#### Input and output columns
The input column will feed the model with data during training. The output column will show the model output after making a prediction.

```python
nlp_column = 'reviews'
target = 'target'
```
Our input column is the `reviews` column. The output column is the `target` column.

Let's now use `Auto_NLP` to automate natural language processing steps.

### Using the imported function
To use the `Auto_NLP` function, run this code:

```python
nlp_transformer= Auto_NLP(
                nlp_column, train, test, target, score_type='balanced_accuracy',
 modeltype='Classification',top_num_features=50, verbose=2,
 build_model=True)
```
The `Auto_NLP` function has the following important parameters:

- `nlp_column`
It is the input column used by the model.

- `target`
It is the output column of the model after making a prediction.

- `train`
It is the split dataset used for training.

- `test`
It is the test dataset used for testing.

- `score_type='balanced_accuracy'`

> It is used to calculate the accuracy score for the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It calculates the accuracy score for the model.
```

- `modeltype='Classification'`
It specifies the type of model we are building. We are building a model used for classification.

- `top_num_features=50`
It specifies the number of important features used during training. Features are the important attribute found in the dataset.

- `build_model=True`
It is used to tell the `Auto_NLP` function to build the model. `Auto_NLP` function will use the key AutoVIML features and produce an optimized model.

> After running this code, the process will run produce outputs. The outputs shows the model building progress. These outputs will also show us which parameters and algorithms have been used to build the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running this code, the process will produce outputs. The outputs show the model-building progress. These outputs will also show us which parameters and algorithms have been used to build the model.
```

#### Second output 
The second output is shown below:

![Output 2](/engineering-education/autonlp-using-autoviml-library-for-natural-language-processing/word-count.jpg)

This output shows the number of words and characters in our dataset.

#### Third output
The third output is shown below:

![Output 3](/engineering-education/autonlp-using-autoviml-library-for-natural-language-processing/stop-words-url-counts.jpg)

This output shows the number of stop words and URLs in our dataset.

#### Forth output
The fourth output is shown below:

![Output 4](/engineering-education/autonlp-using-autoviml-library-for-natural-language-processing/punctuation-hashtags.jpg)

This output shows the number of punctuations and hashtags in our dataset.

The next output shows the vectorization process.

### Vectorization process

> The vectorization process converts the text data into numeric data which the model can use. Machine learning models do not understand the raw text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vectorization process converts the text data into numeric data, which the model can use. Machine learning models do not understand the raw text.
```

In the image above, the vectorization process is done using the [Count Vectorizer](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/using-countvectorizer-to-extracting-features-from-text/) and the [TFIDF vectorizer](https://medium.com/@cmukesh8688/tf-idf-vectorizer-scikit-learn-dbc0244a911a) packages.  The `Auto_NLP` function then selects the algorithm with the best results.

The image below shows the best-selected vectorizer.

![Best vectorizer](/engineering-education/autonlp-using-autoviml-library-for-natural-language-processing/best-vectorizer.png)

From the image above, the best vectorizer selected is the TFIDF vectorizer. The `Auto_NLP` function also adds the best parameters for the TFIDF vectorizer.

The next output shows the best algorithm and the machine learning pipeline.

### The best algorithm and machine learning pipeline
The `Auto_NLP` function searches through all of the available algorithms. It then selects the one with the best results. The selected algorithm is shown in the output below.

![Best algorithm](/engineering-education/autonlp-using-autoviml-library-for-natural-language-processing/best-algorithm.png)

> From the image above the best algorithm is the `Multinomial Naive Bayes algorithm`.

Reviewer: Add commas where necessary
